# ðŸ—ï¸ vibeauracle: The Alpha & Omega Architecture> **Status:** Active / Pre-Alpha  > **Maintainer:** @nathfavour  > **Core Stack:** Go 1.24+ (Workspaces), Bubble Tea (TUI), Libp2p, Ollama/Llama.cpp---## 1. ðŸŒŒ The Vision**vibeauracle** is not just a CLI tool; it is a **Distributed, System-Intimate AI Engineering Ecosystem**.It is designed to be the "God-tier" replacement for the fragmented developer workflow. It unifies the terminal, the IDE, and the AI assistant into a single, keyboard-centric interface that is:1.  **System Aware:** It knows your hardware constraints (Arch Linux/KDE focus) before acting.2.  **Local-First:** It prioritizes offline inference (Ollama/Llama.cpp) and P2P connectivity.3.  **Infinitely Modular:** Built on a strict Hexagonal Architecture using Go Workspaces, allowing seamless extension via MCP (Model Context Protocol).---## 2. ðŸ§© System ArchitectureWe utilize a **Modular Monolith** pattern orchestrated via **Go Workspaces**. This allows us to keep distinct logical components decoupled while maintaining the developer velocity of a single repository.### 2.1 The Hexagonal CoreThe system is divided into concentric layers to prevent tight coupling.```mermaidgraph TD    User((User)) --> TUI[vibe-cli / TUI]    TUI --> Brain[vibe-brain]    Brain --> Context[vibe-context]    Brain --> Tools[vibe-mcp / vibe-sys]    Brain --> Model[vibe-model]        subgraph "Infrastructure Adapters"        Model --> Ollama        Model --> OpenAI        Tools --> GitHub_API        Tools --> Arch_Kernel    end2.2 The Workspace ModulesThe codebase is split into 9 Core Modules, coordinated by a root go.work file.| Module Directory | Package Name | Responsibility | Key Dependencies ||---|---|---|---|| cmd/vibe | vibe-cli | Entry point. Routes commands via Cobra and renders the TUI via Bubble Tea. | cobra, bubbletea, lipgloss || internal/brain | vibe-brain | The Core. The cognitive orchestrator. Manages the "Plan-Execute-Reflect" loop and Agent state. | None (Pure Logic) || internal/model | vibe-model | Universal AI Connector. Abstractions for streaming, tokenizing, and provider switching. | langchaingo, ollama-go || internal/context | vibe-context | Memory & RAG. Handles vector embeddings, project indexing, and sliding windows. | chroma-go / sqlite-vec || internal/mcp | vibe-mcp | Tooling Bridge. Hosts Model Context Protocol servers (GitHub, Postgres, etc.). | mcp-golang-sdk || internal/sys | vibe-sys | System Intimacy. Monitors CPU/VRAM, File Watching, and Virtual FS operations. | gopsutil, fsnotify, sys/unix || internal/daemon | vibe-daemon | Background Service. Persists tasks, handles IPC via UDS (Unix Domain Sockets). | grpc, badger (KV Store) || internal/connect | vibe-connect | Remote Access. P2P tunneling and secure remote control of the CLI. | libp2p, quic-go || internal/vault | vibe-vault | Security. Encrypted credential storage integrated with OS Keychains (KDE Wallet). | keyring, age |3. ðŸ§  The Cognitive Loop ("The Brain")The vibe-brain module does not just "chat." It implements a recursive agentic loop. * Perceive: The Brain receives a UserRequest + SystemSnapshot (from vibe-sys).   * Check: "Is VRAM > 9?" -> If yes, switch to small model or cloud. * Recall: Queries vibe-context for relevant code snippets or past architectural decisions. * Plan: Generates a Chain of Thought (CoT).   * Example: [Read File] -> [Analyze AST] -> [Generate Diff] -> [Verify Build] * Execute: Delegates to vibe-mcp or vibe-sys to perform the action safely in the vibe-fs sandbox. * Reflect: Analyzes stderr or output. If failure, self-corrects and retries up to N times.4. ðŸ› ï¸ Technical Standards4.1 Go Standards * Error Handling: We wrap errors with stack context. Use fmt.Errorf("doing action:w", err). * Concurrency: Heavy use of Goroutines for background agents. Communication MUST happen via Typed Channels. No shared mutable state without sync.Mutex. * Context: Every long-running operation must accept context.Context for cancellation/timeout.4.2 The "Beautiful" UI (TUI) * Framework: Bubble Tea (The Elm Architecture for Go). * Styling: Lipgloss. * Layout:   * Main View: Split pane (Chat / Context / Task Log).   * Overlay: "Thinking" spinner/gauge during inference.   * Input: Multi-line text area with syntax highlighting.4.3 Data Persistence * Vector Store: Local embedded sqlite-vec or chroma for RAG. * KV Store: BadgerDB for task logs and conversation history (stored in ~/.local/share/vibeauracle/). * Secrets: Native OS Keychain via vibe-vault. Never store API keys in plain text files. ðŸš€ Deployment & DistributionWe target Linux (Arch/Debian), macOS (M-Series), Windows, and Android (Termux).1 The GitHub Actions MatrixWe use a unified pipeline to cross-compile for all targets. * Linux/Android: Built on ubuntu-latest using cross-rs or Go's GOOS/GOARCH.   * Targets: linux/amd   4, linux/arm    4, android/arm  4. * macOS: Built on macos-latest.   * Targets: darwin/amd  4, darwin/arm   4 (Universal Binary). * Windows: Built on windows-latest.   * Targets: windows/amd  4 (.exe).2 The Universal InstallerUsers install via a single command:curl -fsSL [https://get.vibeauracle.com](https://get.vibeauracle.com) | shThis script detects the OS, fetches the correct asset from the latest GitHub Release, and verifies the checksum. . ðŸ”® Future Roadmap (The "Omega") * Swarm Mode: Multi-agent collaboration where specialized agents (Security, Perf, Docs) debate solutions in the background.  * Self-Healing: A vibe-daemon watcher that automatically attempts to fix git conflicts or build errors when the user is away.> "We build tools that feel like an extension of the mind, not just the hands."> 